# MRI_Brain_Tumor_Classification_Deep_Learning
Classification of 3 types of brain tumor from MRI images using Deep Learning Strategy

Worldwide, Incidences of brain tumours increases every year.  Brain tumours are classified as benign (noncancerous tumours) and malignant (cancerous).Subclasses of brain tumours are primary and secondary tumours. Primary tumours start in the brain or Central Nervous Systems (CNS) whereas the secondary tumours spread from other body parts into the brain. Depends on the degree of abnormality of brain tissue, the tumours are typecasted into four (1 to 4) gradinglevels. Tumours with 1 and 2 are low grades which are less dangerous. 3&4 grade tumours are high-grade tumours which are highly susceptible to cancer. Primary tumours have several types amongst 36.1 % all primary tumours are referred as meningioma that found near the top and outer curve of the brain. Meningioma is slowly growing noncancerous tumours that cause seizures and visual problems. Glioma is abnormal growth in glial cells presents around the neurons in the brain.  Pituitary tumours grow in pituitary glands that affect body functions. Meningioma are iso-dense dura-based  masses developed at the meninges of the three layers of protecting tissue of the brain and spinal cord, whose diagnosis depends on its anatomical location, shape and appearance of cells. Pituitary tumours are abnormal mass growth in cells around the surface of the pituitary gland that located at the base of skull.  
 
Early detection of primary brain tumor is highly complex because of its position, shape and diversity. Non-invasive imaging techniques are based on absorption properties of tissues. The delineation of absorption rates is too important for precise imaging of tumors. The three type of tumors concentrated on this case study are not much discriminative in terms for its absorption levels (Pixel gray level). Hence the shape of the tumors will play a major role in classifying it. 
The dataset used for this work is available in the following link https://figshare.com/articles/brain_tumour_dataset/1512427.  Dataset Consists of 3064 T1 Weighted contrast-enhanced images from 233 patients with three kinds of a brain tumour: Meningioma (708 slices), Glioma (1426 slices), and Pituitary tumour (930 slices). T1 Longitudinal Relaxation Time-weighted MRI images are scanned with short Repetition Time (TR) and Time to Echo (TE).  The Region of Interests (3 type of tumors) are segmented and provided in .mat file format as a part of database.  
The objective of this case study is to develop the expert model through Deep-Learning algorithms to effectively classify the type of brain tumors. 
